TR55_Tc_qu R Project Description

OBJECTIVE:
The objective of this project is to analyze the effects of time of concentration (Tc) on unit peak discharge within TR-55, in particular sensitivity to changes in Tc values. TR-55, or Technical Release 55, was established by the USDA in 1986 as a set of procedures meant to help engineers simplify stormwwater runoff calculations. The data was used from the "Exhibit 4-II Unit peak discharge (qu) for NRCS (SCS) type II rainfall distribution" graph in chapter 4 of the TR-55 manual. The graph is used to determine unit peak discharge (qu) by using time of concentration (perviously calculated in chapter 3) and Ia/P curves, initial abstraction and precipitation, respecitvely. Once qu is obtained, it is then used to calculate peak stormwater discharge with the equation: qp = (qu)(Am)(Q)(Fp) 

Where,
qp = peak discharge (cfs)
qu = unit peak discharge (csm/in)
Am = area (acres)
Q = runoff (in)
Fp = ponding factor 


STRUCTURE:
The code-base for this project is in R, the data is in .csv format. This analysis uses the Propagate function to generate error within the time of concentration variables in relation to unit peak discharge. 

INSTRUCTIONS TO RECREATE:
The Data Theif platform was used to extract data from the six curves from the Exhibit 4-II Unit peak discharge graph. Once obtained, the data was downloaded as a .csv. Ia/P and Curve numbers (CN) were added into the datasheet and uploaded into R Studio. 

The X and Y variables were defined: x = Time of concentration (Tc) and y = Unit Peak Discharge (qu). A data frame was created for all xy valaues and vectors were created for each curve section by Ia/P value.

To interpolate across all six curves, x and y values per Ia/P sesctions were put into data frames and a subsequent interpolation sequence. Next, interpolation for each y value was established and plotted. 

Lastly, error propagation was generated by using the function 'propagate.' This was combined with interpolated y values and plotted. 
